h1. LibreOffice underline macro

The purpose of this macro is to apply formatting based on plain text. Specifically, text surrounded with @%u@ and @u%@ will be underlined.

For example, if this is found in the document:

bq. A &#37;uwordu&#37; should be underlined.

The resulting formatting will be:

bq. A +word+ should be underlined.

The use case for this is that formatting information may need to be passed through a system that does not support formatting before being added to the document. By using @%u@ and @u%@ tags the formatting information can be preserved no matter the system handling the data.

h2. Setup and Usage

h3. Dependencies

If you're on Windows you can probably skip to the installation step. If you get stuck, come back and read this step.

In LibreOffice, try to find the following in the menu: @Tools@ > @Macros@ > @Organize Macros@ > @Python...@. If it doesn't list Python then:

* If you're on Windows or MacOS, open an issue.
* If you're on an apt-based Linux distro, install the @libreoffice-script-provider-python@ package (it's in the repositories for Ubuntu 16.04, and probably others). If you can't install it, or after installing it and closing LibreOffice, Python is still not in the menu, open an issue.

h3. Installation

Save the file "underline_macro.py":https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Nateowami/libreoffice-underline-macro/master/underline_macro.py to LibreOffice's macro directory, which depends on your operating system:

* Windows: @C:\Program Files (x86)\LibreOffice 5\share\Scripts\python@
* Linux: @/usr/lib/libreoffice/share/Scripts/python@
* Mac: Not completely sure, but try @/Applications/LibreOffice Vanilla.app/Contents/Resources/Scripts/python/@

Then close _all_ instances of LibreOffice.

h3. Running the Macro

Open a document and go to @Tools@ > @Macros@ > @Organize Macros@ > @Python...@. In the dialog that appears, go to @LibreOffice Macros@ > @underline_macro@ > @Underline_Words@. Select Underline_Words in the right pane and click Run.

Need something to try it out on? Copy this text into your document: "Underline &#37;uthisu&#37; word." You should end up with "Underline +this+ word."

h2. TODO

* Easier install
* Keyboard or menu shortcut
* Testing with more platforms. Developed with LibreOffice 5.1.4.2 on Ubuntu 16.04. Confirmed to work on Windows 10.
